# Source: https://cohere.com/blog/rerank-3pt5?utm_source=substack&utm_medium=email

# Introducing Rerank 3.5: Precise AI Search | Cohere Blog

< Back to blogIntroducing Rerank 3.5: Precise AI SearchCohere TeamDec 02, 2024Rerank 3.5 delivers improved reasoning and multilingual capabilities to search complex enterprise data with greater accuracy.ProductNewsroomProductNewsroomShare:Key Contributors:Daniel Simig, Nabila Abraham, Clifton Poth, Martin Hentschel, Violet Dang, Minghan Li, Michael Peng, Nils Reimers, and Elliott ChoiRerank 3.5 is our latest AI search foundation model. It enables businesses to significantly improve the relevancy of information surfaced within search and retrieval-augmented generation (RAG) systems.Rerank 3.5 delivers state-of-the-art features, including:Enhanced reasoning skillsto enable understanding complex user questions which express various constraints that have traditionally challenged search systems.Broad data compatibilityto search long documents with rich and relevant metadata (e.g. emails, reports), semi-structured data (e.g. tables, JSON), and code.Improved multilingual performanceacross 100+ languages and industry-leading in global business languages such as Arabic, French, Japanese, and Korean."Cohere is a key part of what makes Notion AI work. Their reranker gives us both the speed and quality we need, and it’s consistently improving. It’s been essential for getting our AI Connectors out the door quickly." - Simon Last, Cofounder & CTO, NotionImprove enterprise AI systems in minutesRerank 3.5 efficiently finds the most relevant business data to answer a user question. It accomplishes this through a method called “cross-encoding” where the model computes a relevance score for a business document in relation to a user question. This method enables highly accurate information understanding, exceeding traditional keyword and embedding search, and can be applied after an initial dense retrieval stage to ensure the answers surfaced to users are maximally precise.Rerank 3.5 is compatible with any existing search system, can be implemented with just a few lines of code, and tends to have negligible impact to overall system latency. It is most frequently used within retrieval-augmented generation (RAG) applications to provide generative AI models, such as ourCommand R series, with real-time business context to inform their outputs.This offers a means of increasing the reliability of AI systems, helping sophisticated businesses move past experimentation and into production deployments to accelerate data-driven decision making.Understand complex data across 100+ languagesSearch systems often fail to retrieve relevant information when users implicitly or explicitly express constraints on what they would like returned. We identified that this was partially due to traditional systems lacking the ability to reason. Rerank 3.5 shows substantial improvements in this area, understanding complex multifaceted questions that other search systems fail to answer.Reasoning Datasets are adversarial datasets where the user bounds a semantic search with implicit and explicit criteria. Reasoning dataset is measured as P@1 out of 2.This capability is particularly helpful for businesses operating within specialized industries such as finance, government, energy, manufacturing, and healthcare. For example, on a financial services dataset we curated to be generally representative for common use cases, Rerank 3.5 performance was+23.4% better than Hybrid Searchand+30.8% better than BM25. We expect organizations in these industries to observe similar improvements when evaluating performance on their data.Rerank 3.5 also offers industry-leading multilingual capabilities. It can search across data in 100+ languages, with state-of-the-art accuracy on the following 10 global business languages: Arabic, Chinese, French, German, Hindi, Japanese, Korean, Portuguese, Russian, and Spanish.Cohere’s multilingual evaluation suite consists of external datasets covering 18 different languages in a variety of monolingual and cross-lingual settings. Multilingual performance is measured by nDCG@10When compared to our previous Rerank 3 model, Rerank 3.5 delivers a+26.4% improvement on cross-lingual searchwhere the user query is in a different language than the documents being searched. This helps large organizations eliminate barriers to accessing information across geographies and teams.Get started with Rerank 3.5Rerank 3.5 is available today onCohere’s platform,Amazon Bedrock, andAmazon SageMaker. Our latest reranker is available for the first time on Amazon Bedrock through the new Rerank API (learn more). It will soon be available across additional cloud platforms.“We’re excited to work with Cohere to bring their latest reranker search model to Amazon Bedrock. Cohere Rerank 3.5 delivers state-of-the-art search and retrieval capabilities and enables powerful multilingual RAG applications. Rerank 3.5 enhances search accuracy by reranking keyword and vector results, ensuring only the most relevant content reaches the model—improving both search precision and enterprise efficiency. Whether in finance, hospitality, retail, e-commerce or beyond, Cohere's Rerank 3.5 model in Amazon Bedrock enables organizations to improve how they surface and utilize critical information, delivering better responses while reducing both latency and costs.”- Rahul Pathak, VP Data & AI GTM, AWSRerank 3.5 can also be deployed into any Virtual Private Cloud (VPC) or on-premise environment. To get started with Rerank 3.5 for your business, and learn more about options for large enterprise deployments, please contact oursales team.Get Started!Developers can find additional technical details in ourdocumentation.A notice to existing users:Users of older Rerank models (i.e. rerank-english-v2.0 and rerank-multilingual-v2.0) will need to migrate to a newer version of the model. We recommend that your usage is moved to rerank-v3.5. Fine-tuned models created from these base models are not affected by this deprecation. When accessing these models via Cohere’s APIs you will receive a warning - migration must happen by 2025-03-31. We will be in touch with impacted users over the coming days. If you would like to read more about Cohere's deprecation policies, you can findmore details in our documentation.Shutdown DateOlder ModelNew Recommended Model2025-03-31rerank-english-v2.0rerank-v3.52025-03-31rerank-multilingual-v2.0rerank-v3.5

< Back to blogIntroducing Rerank 3.5: Precise AI SearchCohere TeamDec 02, 2024Rerank 3.5 delivers improved reasoning and multilingual capabilities to search complex enterprise data with greater accuracy.ProductNewsroomProductNewsroom

# Introducing Rerank 3.5: Precise AI Search

Rerank 3.5 delivers improved reasoning and multilingual capabilities to search complex enterprise data with greater accuracy.

ProductNewsroomProductNewsroom

Key Contributors:Daniel Simig, Nabila Abraham, Clifton Poth, Martin Hentschel, Violet Dang, Minghan Li, Michael Peng, Nils Reimers, and Elliott ChoiRerank 3.5 is our latest AI search foundation model. It enables businesses to significantly improve the relevancy of information surfaced within search and retrieval-augmented generation (RAG) systems.Rerank 3.5 delivers state-of-the-art features, including:Enhanced reasoning skillsto enable understanding complex user questions which express various constraints that have traditionally challenged search systems.Broad data compatibilityto search long documents with rich and relevant metadata (e.g. emails, reports), semi-structured data (e.g. tables, JSON), and code.Improved multilingual performanceacross 100+ languages and industry-leading in global business languages such as Arabic, French, Japanese, and Korean."Cohere is a key part of what makes Notion AI work. Their reranker gives us both the speed and quality we need, and it’s consistently improving. It’s been essential for getting our AI Connectors out the door quickly." - Simon Last, Cofounder & CTO, NotionImprove enterprise AI systems in minutesRerank 3.5 efficiently finds the most relevant business data to answer a user question. It accomplishes this through a method called “cross-encoding” where the model computes a relevance score for a business document in relation to a user question. This method enables highly accurate information understanding, exceeding traditional keyword and embedding search, and can be applied after an initial dense retrieval stage to ensure the answers surfaced to users are maximally precise.Rerank 3.5 is compatible with any existing search system, can be implemented with just a few lines of code, and tends to have negligible impact to overall system latency. It is most frequently used within retrieval-augmented generation (RAG) applications to provide generative AI models, such as ourCommand R series, with real-time business context to inform their outputs.This offers a means of increasing the reliability of AI systems, helping sophisticated businesses move past experimentation and into production deployments to accelerate data-driven decision making.Understand complex data across 100+ languagesSearch systems often fail to retrieve relevant information when users implicitly or explicitly express constraints on what they would like returned. We identified that this was partially due to traditional systems lacking the ability to reason. Rerank 3.5 shows substantial improvements in this area, understanding complex multifaceted questions that other search systems fail to answer.Reasoning Datasets are adversarial datasets where the user bounds a semantic search with implicit and explicit criteria. Reasoning dataset is measured as P@1 out of 2.This capability is particularly helpful for businesses operating within specialized industries such as finance, government, energy, manufacturing, and healthcare. For example, on a financial services dataset we curated to be generally representative for common use cases, Rerank 3.5 performance was+23.4% better than Hybrid Searchand+30.8% better than BM25. We expect organizations in these industries to observe similar improvements when evaluating performance on their data.Rerank 3.5 also offers industry-leading multilingual capabilities. It can search across data in 100+ languages, with state-of-the-art accuracy on the following 10 global business languages: Arabic, Chinese, French, German, Hindi, Japanese, Korean, Portuguese, Russian, and Spanish.Cohere’s multilingual evaluation suite consists of external datasets covering 18 different languages in a variety of monolingual and cross-lingual settings. Multilingual performance is measured by nDCG@10When compared to our previous Rerank 3 model, Rerank 3.5 delivers a+26.4% improvement on cross-lingual searchwhere the user query is in a different language than the documents being searched. This helps large organizations eliminate barriers to accessing information across geographies and teams.Get started with Rerank 3.5Rerank 3.5 is available today onCohere’s platform,Amazon Bedrock, andAmazon SageMaker. Our latest reranker is available for the first time on Amazon Bedrock through the new Rerank API (learn more). It will soon be available across additional cloud platforms.“We’re excited to work with Cohere to bring their latest reranker search model to Amazon Bedrock. Cohere Rerank 3.5 delivers state-of-the-art search and retrieval capabilities and enables powerful multilingual RAG applications. Rerank 3.5 enhances search accuracy by reranking keyword and vector results, ensuring only the most relevant content reaches the model—improving both search precision and enterprise efficiency. Whether in finance, hospitality, retail, e-commerce or beyond, Cohere's Rerank 3.5 model in Amazon Bedrock enables organizations to improve how they surface and utilize critical information, delivering better responses while reducing both latency and costs.”- Rahul Pathak, VP Data & AI GTM, AWSRerank 3.5 can also be deployed into any Virtual Private Cloud (VPC) or on-premise environment. To get started with Rerank 3.5 for your business, and learn more about options for large enterprise deployments, please contact oursales team.Get Started!Developers can find additional technical details in ourdocumentation.A notice to existing users:Users of older Rerank models (i.e. rerank-english-v2.0 and rerank-multilingual-v2.0) will need to migrate to a newer version of the model. We recommend that your usage is moved to rerank-v3.5. Fine-tuned models created from these base models are not affected by this deprecation. When accessing these models via Cohere’s APIs you will receive a warning - migration must happen by 2025-03-31. We will be in touch with impacted users over the coming days. If you would like to read more about Cohere's deprecation policies, you can findmore details in our documentation.Shutdown DateOlder ModelNew Recommended Model2025-03-31rerank-english-v2.0rerank-v3.52025-03-31rerank-multilingual-v2.0rerank-v3.5

Key Contributors:Daniel Simig, Nabila Abraham, Clifton Poth, Martin Hentschel, Violet Dang, Minghan Li, Michael Peng, Nils Reimers, and Elliott ChoiRerank 3.5 is our latest AI search foundation model. It enables businesses to significantly improve the relevancy of information surfaced within search and retrieval-augmented generation (RAG) systems.Rerank 3.5 delivers state-of-the-art features, including:Enhanced reasoning skillsto enable understanding complex user questions which express various constraints that have traditionally challenged search systems.Broad data compatibilityto search long documents with rich and relevant metadata (e.g. emails, reports), semi-structured data (e.g. tables, JSON), and code.Improved multilingual performanceacross 100+ languages and industry-leading in global business languages such as Arabic, French, Japanese, and Korean."Cohere is a key part of what makes Notion AI work. Their reranker gives us both the speed and quality we need, and it’s consistently improving. It’s been essential for getting our AI Connectors out the door quickly." - Simon Last, Cofounder & CTO, NotionImprove enterprise AI systems in minutesRerank 3.5 efficiently finds the most relevant business data to answer a user question. It accomplishes this through a method called “cross-encoding” where the model computes a relevance score for a business document in relation to a user question. This method enables highly accurate information understanding, exceeding traditional keyword and embedding search, and can be applied after an initial dense retrieval stage to ensure the answers surfaced to users are maximally precise.Rerank 3.5 is compatible with any existing search system, can be implemented with just a few lines of code, and tends to have negligible impact to overall system latency. It is most frequently used within retrieval-augmented generation (RAG) applications to provide generative AI models, such as ourCommand R series, with real-time business context to inform their outputs.This offers a means of increasing the reliability of AI systems, helping sophisticated businesses move past experimentation and into production deployments to accelerate data-driven decision making.Understand complex data across 100+ languagesSearch systems often fail to retrieve relevant information when users implicitly or explicitly express constraints on what they would like returned. We identified that this was partially due to traditional systems lacking the ability to reason. Rerank 3.5 shows substantial improvements in this area, understanding complex multifaceted questions that other search systems fail to answer.Reasoning Datasets are adversarial datasets where the user bounds a semantic search with implicit and explicit criteria. Reasoning dataset is measured as P@1 out of 2.This capability is particularly helpful for businesses operating within specialized industries such as finance, government, energy, manufacturing, and healthcare. For example, on a financial services dataset we curated to be generally representative for common use cases, Rerank 3.5 performance was+23.4% better than Hybrid Searchand+30.8% better than BM25. We expect organizations in these industries to observe similar improvements when evaluating performance on their data.Rerank 3.5 also offers industry-leading multilingual capabilities. It can search across data in 100+ languages, with state-of-the-art accuracy on the following 10 global business languages: Arabic, Chinese, French, German, Hindi, Japanese, Korean, Portuguese, Russian, and Spanish.Cohere’s multilingual evaluation suite consists of external datasets covering 18 different languages in a variety of monolingual and cross-lingual settings. Multilingual performance is measured by nDCG@10When compared to our previous Rerank 3 model, Rerank 3.5 delivers a+26.4% improvement on cross-lingual searchwhere the user query is in a different language than the documents being searched. This helps large organizations eliminate barriers to accessing information across geographies and teams.Get started with Rerank 3.5Rerank 3.5 is available today onCohere’s platform,Amazon Bedrock, andAmazon SageMaker. Our latest reranker is available for the first time on Amazon Bedrock through the new Rerank API (learn more). It will soon be available across additional cloud platforms.“We’re excited to work with Cohere to bring their latest reranker search model to Amazon Bedrock. Cohere Rerank 3.5 delivers state-of-the-art search and retrieval capabilities and enables powerful multilingual RAG applications. Rerank 3.5 enhances search accuracy by reranking keyword and vector results, ensuring only the most relevant content reaches the model—improving both search precision and enterprise efficiency. Whether in finance, hospitality, retail, e-commerce or beyond, Cohere's Rerank 3.5 model in Amazon Bedrock enables organizations to improve how they surface and utilize critical information, delivering better responses while reducing both latency and costs.”- Rahul Pathak, VP Data & AI GTM, AWSRerank 3.5 can also be deployed into any Virtual Private Cloud (VPC) or on-premise environment. To get started with Rerank 3.5 for your business, and learn more about options for large enterprise deployments, please contact oursales team.Get Started!Developers can find additional technical details in ourdocumentation.A notice to existing users:Users of older Rerank models (i.e. rerank-english-v2.0 and rerank-multilingual-v2.0) will need to migrate to a newer version of the model. We recommend that your usage is moved to rerank-v3.5. Fine-tuned models created from these base models are not affected by this deprecation. When accessing these models via Cohere’s APIs you will receive a warning - migration must happen by 2025-03-31. We will be in touch with impacted users over the coming days. If you would like to read more about Cohere's deprecation policies, you can findmore details in our documentation.Shutdown DateOlder ModelNew Recommended Model2025-03-31rerank-english-v2.0rerank-v3.52025-03-31rerank-multilingual-v2.0rerank-v3.5

Key Contributors:Daniel Simig, Nabila Abraham, Clifton Poth, Martin Hentschel, Violet Dang, Minghan Li, Michael Peng, Nils Reimers, and Elliott ChoiRerank 3.5 is our latest AI search foundation model. It enables businesses to significantly improve the relevancy of information surfaced within search and retrieval-augmented generation (RAG) systems.

Rerank 3.5 delivers state-of-the-art features, including:

Enhanced reasoning skillsto enable understanding complex user questions which express various constraints that have traditionally challenged search systems.

Broad data compatibilityto search long documents with rich and relevant metadata (e.g. emails, reports), semi-structured data (e.g. tables, JSON), and code.

Improved multilingual performanceacross 100+ languages and industry-leading in global business languages such as Arabic, French, Japanese, and Korean.

## Improve enterprise AI systems in minutes

Rerank 3.5 efficiently finds the most relevant business data to answer a user question. It accomplishes this through a method called “cross-encoding” where the model computes a relevance score for a business document in relation to a user question. This method enables highly accurate information understanding, exceeding traditional keyword and embedding search, and can be applied after an initial dense retrieval stage to ensure the answers surfaced to users are maximally precise.

Rerank 3.5 is compatible with any existing search system, can be implemented with just a few lines of code, and tends to have negligible impact to overall system latency. It is most frequently used within retrieval-augmented generation (RAG) applications to provide generative AI models, such as ourCommand R series, with real-time business context to inform their outputs.

This offers a means of increasing the reliability of AI systems, helping sophisticated businesses move past experimentation and into production deployments to accelerate data-driven decision making.

## Understand complex data across 100+ languages

Search systems often fail to retrieve relevant information when users implicitly or explicitly express constraints on what they would like returned. We identified that this was partially due to traditional systems lacking the ability to reason. Rerank 3.5 shows substantial improvements in this area, understanding complex multifaceted questions that other search systems fail to answer.

This capability is particularly helpful for businesses operating within specialized industries such as finance, government, energy, manufacturing, and healthcare. For example, on a financial services dataset we curated to be generally representative for common use cases, Rerank 3.5 performance was+23.4% better than Hybrid Searchand+30.8% better than BM25. We expect organizations in these industries to observe similar improvements when evaluating performance on their data.

Rerank 3.5 also offers industry-leading multilingual capabilities. It can search across data in 100+ languages, with state-of-the-art accuracy on the following 10 global business languages: Arabic, Chinese, French, German, Hindi, Japanese, Korean, Portuguese, Russian, and Spanish.

When compared to our previous Rerank 3 model, Rerank 3.5 delivers a+26.4% improvement on cross-lingual searchwhere the user query is in a different language than the documents being searched. This helps large organizations eliminate barriers to accessing information across geographies and teams.

## Get started with Rerank 3.5

Rerank 3.5 is available today onCohere’s platform,Amazon Bedrock, andAmazon SageMaker. Our latest reranker is available for the first time on Amazon Bedrock through the new Rerank API (learn more). It will soon be available across additional cloud platforms.

Rerank 3.5 can also be deployed into any Virtual Private Cloud (VPC) or on-premise environment. To get started with Rerank 3.5 for your business, and learn more about options for large enterprise deployments, please contact oursales team.

Developers can find additional technical details in ourdocumentation.

A notice to existing users:Users of older Rerank models (i.e. rerank-english-v2.0 and rerank-multilingual-v2.0) will need to migrate to a newer version of the model. We recommend that your usage is moved to rerank-v3.5. Fine-tuned models created from these base models are not affected by this deprecation. When accessing these models via Cohere’s APIs you will receive a warning - migration must happen by 2025-03-31. We will be in touch with impacted users over the coming days. If you would like to read more about Cohere's deprecation policies, you can findmore details in our documentation.

```
rerank-multilingual-v2.0
```

Keep ReadingCohere Team — Oct 07, 2025Announcing the Cohere Partner Program: Boosting enterprise AICompanyNewsroomPartnerCompanyNewsroomPartnerRead full articleCohere Team — Sep 24, 2025Cohere adds $100M in second close to latest round as it scales security-first enterprise AICompanyNewsroomCompanyNewsroomRead full articleTeresa Grandia — Sep 23, 2025Exploring AI in EducationResearchResearchRead full article

Keep ReadingCohere Team — Oct 07, 2025Announcing the Cohere Partner Program: Boosting enterprise AICompanyNewsroomPartnerCompanyNewsroomPartnerRead full articleCohere Team — Sep 24, 2025Cohere adds $100M in second close to latest round as it scales security-first enterprise AICompanyNewsroomCompanyNewsroomRead full articleTeresa Grandia — Sep 23, 2025Exploring AI in EducationResearchResearchRead full article

Cohere Team — Oct 07, 2025Announcing the Cohere Partner Program: Boosting enterprise AICompanyNewsroomPartnerCompanyNewsroomPartnerRead full articleCohere Team — Sep 24, 2025Cohere adds $100M in second close to latest round as it scales security-first enterprise AICompanyNewsroomCompanyNewsroomRead full articleTeresa Grandia — Sep 23, 2025Exploring AI in EducationResearchResearchRead full article

Cohere Team — Oct 07, 2025Announcing the Cohere Partner Program: Boosting enterprise AICompanyNewsroomPartnerCompanyNewsroomPartnerRead full articleCohere Team — Sep 24, 2025Cohere adds $100M in second close to latest round as it scales security-first enterprise AICompanyNewsroomCompanyNewsroomRead full articleTeresa Grandia — Sep 23, 2025Exploring AI in EducationResearchResearchRead full article

Cohere Team — Oct 07, 2025Announcing the Cohere Partner Program: Boosting enterprise AICompanyNewsroomPartnerCompanyNewsroomPartnerRead full article

Cohere Team — Oct 07, 2025Announcing the Cohere Partner Program: Boosting enterprise AICompanyNewsroomPartnerCompanyNewsroomPartnerRead full article

Cohere Team — Oct 07, 2025Announcing the Cohere Partner Program: Boosting enterprise AICompanyNewsroomPartnerCompanyNewsroomPartnerRead full article

Cohere Team — Oct 07, 2025Announcing the Cohere Partner Program: Boosting enterprise AI

Cohere Team — Oct 07, 2025

Cohere Team — Oct 07, 2025

Cohere Team — Oct 07, 2025

Cohere Team — Oct 07, 2025

Announcing the Cohere Partner Program: Boosting enterprise AI

CompanyNewsroomPartnerCompanyNewsroomPartner

CompanyNewsroomPartner

CompanyNewsroomPartner

Cohere Team — Sep 24, 2025Cohere adds $100M in second close to latest round as it scales security-first enterprise AICompanyNewsroomCompanyNewsroomRead full article

Cohere Team — Sep 24, 2025Cohere adds $100M in second close to latest round as it scales security-first enterprise AICompanyNewsroomCompanyNewsroomRead full article

Cohere Team — Sep 24, 2025Cohere adds $100M in second close to latest round as it scales security-first enterprise AICompanyNewsroomCompanyNewsroomRead full article

Cohere Team — Sep 24, 2025Cohere adds $100M in second close to latest round as it scales security-first enterprise AI

Cohere Team — Sep 24, 2025

Cohere Team — Sep 24, 2025

Cohere Team — Sep 24, 2025

Cohere Team — Sep 24, 2025

Cohere adds $100M in second close to latest round as it scales security-first enterprise AI

CompanyNewsroomCompanyNewsroom

Teresa Grandia — Sep 23, 2025Exploring AI in EducationResearchResearchRead full article

Teresa Grandia — Sep 23, 2025Exploring AI in EducationResearchResearchRead full article

Teresa Grandia — Sep 23, 2025Exploring AI in EducationResearchResearchRead full article

Teresa Grandia — Sep 23, 2025Exploring AI in Education

Teresa Grandia — Sep 23, 2025

Teresa Grandia — Sep 23, 2025

Teresa Grandia — Sep 23, 2025

Teresa Grandia — Sep 23, 2025

Exploring AI in Education

